RHIDP-12605: Phase 2 Homepage - persona support and related RBAC (#2153)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/ref-homepage-visibility-rule-syntax.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="homepage-visibility-rule-syntax_{context}"]
= Homepage visibility rule syntax

[role="_abstract"]

> Reference information about controlling who can see homepage cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the visibility properties, access control parameters, and user group settings used to restrict or grant access to homepage cards.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="homepage-visibility-rule-syntax_{context}"]
= Homepage visibility rule syntax

[role="_abstract"]
Reference information about controlling who can see homepage cards.

> Use visibility conditions to show specific cards to individual users, RBAC groups, or users with certain permissions.

Reviewer 2: Same:

```suggestion
Use visibility conditions to show specific cards to individual users and group memberships.
```

== Visibility condition fields

The `if` configuration section supports the following optional fields:

[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", frame="all", options="header"]
|===
|Field
|Type
|Required
|Description

|`users`
|array of strings
|No
|User references that can see this card.
Users whose reference matches any listed value can see the card.
Example: `user:default/jane`

|`groups`
|array of strings
|No
|RBAC groups whose members can see this card.
Users who belong to any of the listed groups can see the card.
{product-very-short} verifies group membership through the catalog.
Users who are not in the catalog cannot match group-based visibility conditions.

|`permissions`
|array of strings
|No
|Permissions required to see this card.
Users who have any listed permission can see the card.
The permissions service validates permission names.

> |===

Reviewer 2: Can we drop this section until https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/RHDHBUGS-3132 is fixed?

== Logical operators

Visibility conditions use the following logical behavior:

* *Multiple values in one field (OR)*: When a field lists multiple values (for example, multiple groups), the user must match at least one value to see the card.

> * *Multiple fields in one condition (OR)*: When an `if` block includes multiple fields (for example, both `groups` and `permissions`), the user must satisfy at least one condition from any field to see the card.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Multiple fields in one condition (OR)*: When an `if` block includes multiple fields (for example, both `useres` and `groups`), the user must satisfy at least one condition from any field to see the card.
```

== Group-based visibility

The following example restricts card visibility to members of `group:default/developers`:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: templates
  ref: TemplateSection
  if:
    groups: [group:default/developers]
  layout:
    xl: { w: 12, h: 5 }
----

== Multiple groups (OR logic)

The following example displays a card to members of either `group:default/managers` or `group:default/team-leads`:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: scorecard
  ref: ScorecardCard
  if:
    groups: [group:default/managers, group:default/team-leads]
  layout:
    xl: { w: 6, h: 6 }
----

== User-specific visibility

The following example restricts card visibility to a specific user by their user reference:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: admin-dashboard
  ref: AdminDashboard
  if:
    users: [user:default/admin]
  layout:
    xl: { w: 12, h: 6 }
----

== Permission-based visibility

The following example restricts card visibility to users with the `homepage.default-widgets.read` permission:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: rbac-management
  ref: RBACManagement
  if:
    permissions: [homepage.default-widgets.read]
  layout:
    xl: { w: 12, h: 8 }

> ----

Reviewer 2: Can we please skip this section until https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/RHDHBUGS-3132 is fixed?

== Default visibility for all users

The following example makes a card visible to all authenticated users by omitting the `if` field:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: search-bar
  ref: SearchBar
  layout:
    xl: { w: 10, h: 1, x: 1 }
----

Alternatively, an empty `if` object produces the same result:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: quickaccess-card
  ref: QuickAccessCard
  if: {}
  layout:
    xl: { w: 6, h: 6 }
----

[NOTE]
====
Omitting `if`, using `if: {}`, or using `if` with all empty lists are functionally identical.
All authenticated users can see the card.
====

== Combined group and permission visibility

The following example displays a card to users who satisfy at least one condition—either belong to specific groups OR have specific permissions:

[source,yaml]
----
- id: analytics
  ref: AdvancedAnalytics
  if:
    groups: [group:default/data-scientists, group:default/analysts]
    permissions: [analytics.view]
  layout:
    xl: { w: 12, h: 6 }

> ----

Reviewer 2: Keep that in your local notes but can we please skip that section until https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/RHDHBUGS-3132 is fixed.

The card displays to users who match any of these conditions:

* The user belongs to `group:default/data-scientists` OR `group:default/analysts`

> * OR the user has the `analytics.view` permission

Reviewer 2: see above
